# music-genre-classification
A machine learning project that tries to predict the genre of a given music track using Ensemble Learning technique.

# Abstract
Music tracks can be classified into different categories based on how they “sound”. A music genre is a generic category that classifies music tracks as belonging to a common tradition or set of conventions. Music can be divided into different genres in many different ways. The artistic nature of music means that these classifications are often subjective and controversial, and some genres may overlap. A music track’s sound is based on various properties, qualities or features of that track; how a music track sounds is based on these properties. Humans have been the primary tool in attributing genre-tags to songs. Automating this classification process using a machine is a more intricate task. As machine learning excels at deciphering patterns from complex data, we aimed to train a machine learning classifier, with these properties as features and corresponding genres as labels. This classifier can then be used to predict the genres of other music tracks based on those songs’ properties. Our dataset consists of two hundred totals songs, evenly distributed across rap, reggae, classical, and country genres. The summary feature data of each of the songs are taken from Spotify. We hypothesized that by using techniques like feature engineering (feature selection) and ensemble learning, the efficiency and the accuracy of the classifier can be improved. We were able to increase the efficiency of the model by 3-4% by using aforementioned techniques.
